23/09/2019
Today I have met my team again after summer break. After summer I feel much more confident in my skills to talk with others and develop new and old ideas. 
We've been talking about what game ideas we want to prototype and what can go wrong and what can go right. Had PO meeting as well where we talked about 
whether some ideas could be realised and sold in the future and Michael suggested a few ideas - the University can fund some development as we are going 
to sell the game.

From programmers' perspective I'm not very familiar with Unreal's c++ coding (we are going for Unreal Engine for this year), so I decided to start off with looking 
up some tutorials for certain things that could be helpful in the future - some of them being some of the features we want in a game. Today I wasn't feeling like 
starting actually prototyping/coding, that's why I decided to first find tutorials, read them and, eventually, start coding them (depending whether we decide that 
that could be useful to make in the first place). I've found networking for Unreal - making multiplayer viable - which is one of the key features for one of our ideas. 
Also, I found how to (potentailly) make multithreading for Unreal Engine 4, which could later fix some lag issues, I hope.

Zac has showed me how to clone a repo without it being laggy and crushing (using depth 1 - in which case it will only download the necessary files) as well as 
showing useful stuff such as "unittest", which is used in many proffesional cases where the code is being tested while refactoring, which makes it easier to 
debug/refactor. We've talked about some of the issues that could occur when we prototype/start making a game, but hopefully that won't be much of a problem 
and we could handle it.

During this first day of Uni, I've been feeling pretty confident, ready to start working, but also a bit scared of the workflow we are going to have and whether 
I could be able to handle everything on time. There's surely going to be problems, unfinished work, too much confidence in my skills and work will take longer 
that I would expect it to take. Also, don't forget my lazyness... But I'm feeling much better than I did previous two years, I had refreshing summer break and 
I found someone that has changed me a bit, that will be changing me for the best and who will, hopefully, cheer me up during tough times.


24/09/2019
Today we had an introduction lecture about our game projects - what's been changed for this year, what's good to concentrate on, supervisor meetings and place allocations. 
Been pretty useful to consider some of these things early on and now I'm feeling a bit more confident in my ability to work on the game and be productive and supportive. 
We've also been shown all the rubric for this semester's modules to give us an early look and understand what's important during this year. There was another lecture 
about portfolios and what importance they have as well as about freelancing - what are the pros and cons about it. Luckily, or unfortunately, portfolio for programmers 
is not always necessary, even though it's still very useful to have, especially if one wants to work as a freelancer.

Today I have made a simple patrol AI in Unreal Engine 4, which may or may not be used later in our game, but I had to do something because I feel like, as a programmer, 
I don't know what would be best to make early in development. That's why I asked my team about what I could do now to have it as early as possible and maybe change it 
later in development. Hopefully, they will give me some ideas. 

Unfortunately, Unreal Engine didn't load today as well - getting compiling errors if I try to make a new project starting as C++ rather that as Blueprint project. 
Apparently, the Visual Studio version is not supported by .1 version. Hopefully, this will be fixed asap.


25/09/2019
Today I had my first supervisor meeting with Ed. We talked about how complicated my dissertation project can be and how to make it simpler, what additional papers 
I could read and what to focus on. He suggested some interesting stuff, for example looking more into how simple RL algorithms can be more efficient than complex 
ones. He also suggested what artefact project I could focus on - using open-source algorithms to compare in games they hav enot yet been used in to see which ones 
are more efficient than others. 

After supervisor meeting we had programmers guild where we were job-hunting - looking into game companies and getting an idea of what they might require from applicants 
as well as what we should expect from them in the future. The guild has become a lot more interesting and useful compared to previous years. Now we have some dedicated 
session where we do certain things we were given. But we could also do our personal stuff during those sessions, which could be very useful when we get deadlines or 
something to show to the tutor for feedback...

Others had portfolio day, so only few of us were in the studio after our guild (I was not there). So this day was a procrastination day, I'd say...


26/09/2019
Today we had no lectures, so all my time I spent working on a game. This time I've been working on RTS-like camera movement - moving the camera with WASD and arrows, tilting 
the camera and rotating it. While doing the tutorial for that I encountered some errors, which I spent about an hour or two trying to find a fix. This got me a bit frustrated, 
because I didn't what to look for about this error, but eventually I got it and as always it was a stupid and simple error to fix... Luckily, Zac also suggested putting my 
stuff into a branch from our repository, which I should've done earlier, but better late than never and there was not a lot done yet, so it's fine.


27/09/2019
No lectures today at all, full focus on the game. Have been continuing working on the camera - added screen edge movement and considered how I should do the resource system 
and AI system for workers and how to assign people to their jobs and etc. Found a couple tutorials that cover this, so will have to go through that. Feeling a bit lost 
in what to focus on, right now I feel like I'm doing this and that and not concentrating on one important thing to make. Hopefully, this will change next week.


30/09/2019
Today we had one lecture (for BAs) where Gareth was talking about our potential future jobs, whether that's game industry related or not, asset creation or not, etc. 
It's been useful for those who still are not sure on their future career. However, I'm pretty confident in the fact that I want to work in the industry creating games. 
It was still useful regarding getting a better knowledge of what to expect and where to look for jobs and/or other people's experiences (LinkedIn).

Regarding game project, today I have made a resource spawner - placing an actor to the scene that has box collider will spawn given assets (resources). It can 
spawn on begin play and/or every given time. I also added a basic HUD to display current resources. The resources spawned also have a random rotation to it to make it 
not look exactly the same every single time they spawn - adding some variantion, even though it's the same asset.


1/10/2019
Morning lecture about pre-production by Brian - was pretty fun and useful to hear that prototypes should not take long and should look like shit. That is fine, it's 
a part of proccess and evetuanlly success. We don't have to be afraid to throw away some ideas, assets, codes, etc. This is why we prototype - to see whether it works, 
whether it's fun and could potentially be improved and so on. He suggested some models to prototype, some of the are new, some of them are not and some of them we 
have actually made during last and this week. Also suggested books too boost one's creativity skills, I suppose, both understanding is psychologically and practically. 

During the studio time I decided to fix one problem with blueprints (spawning assets-resources) and it was a quick fix, which only took like 5-10 minutes, which I'm 
happy about, because I can continue working on it and not try to find a problem... Also went through some improvements for camera - adding lag to it to smoothen it up, 
so it looks nicer when moving the camera. 

Tomorrow I have another supervisor meeting with Ed about the dissertation and I should have a proposal by then, which makes me think that I should start writing it 
in the studio (I haven't started on it yet...) and hopefully finish. It shouldn't take long as it's only 250-word proposal, however, it might be difficult due to 
not being sure of what topic and what question I wanna go for. It's informal, so should be fine anyway, but I would like to get a more decent idea of what I might 
be most interested in writing and creating an artefact of.


2/10/2019
Supervisor meeting and programmers' guild - during the morning meeting we had a good talk about my research topic. I was still unsure what I really want to do and what I 
would enjoy doing, but now I have more ideas that I will have to research. Some of them sound very interesting for me, however for these topics I haven't thought of the 
potential artefact. Nevertheless, I feel like some of these ideas I could actually enjoy researching and writing about. The ideas were, by the way, about human-like 
behaviour in games and how it's more fun and appealing to players than "OP" AI. Also, as the games are considered some sort of escape from real life, could human-like AI 
in games ruin this experience?

During programmers' guild we've review our chosen job ads, did some tests for personalities that were suggested in this week's lecture, talked about a bunch of stuff like 
managing your time to do work and how to confince yourself to start doing actual work. Next week's guild should be about that.


3/10/2019
Today I had not lectures, so all my time I spent in the studio working on a game and writing a proposal. Nothing too interesting. For the game I started working on 
actually constructing buildings - today I added building preview (displaying the building on mouse cursor before placing it). There's still no ability to actually 
place it, so will be working on that next time. 

Started writing my proposal as well. It's not formal and is not assessed, only to get some feedback on the research question and find a better sounding question for 
the paper.


4/10/2019
Today we had a lecture where we were discussing our paper topics - reading others' proposals, trying to say what it's about and how interesting/useful it is.
After that we had a team supervisor meeting. We showed Michael our prototypes so far, but half of the time we were just trying to find them and were just chilling there.
After I didn't stay in the studio and went home to relax.


7/10/2019
The lecture today was pretty boring even though it had some useful points to consider, but I couldn't take everything. So, can't tell much about the lecture we had.
In the studio, however, I started working on actually constructing buildings - successfully, but it had some issues with that that I have to fix later. This I will do 
tomorrow as well as actually building it rather than having a ghost building showing in the level. It will not be as easy, because I want to consider workers to build it 
instead of having it built after some certain time. But for prototype, second option could be of use.


8/10/2019
Skipped a lecture today for team training (volleyball). However, after the training I worked on the 1st prototype - cleaned up Zak's blueprints to make the look prettier, 
implemented game time to later use it to actually construct buildings whilst assigning workers. The last one I already started doing, but I will need some more time to 
make it work. Hopefully, by the end of this week I'll be able to make it.


9/10/2019
Had a supervisor meeting today. As I haven't done anything for my dissertation since last Friday I had nothing to talk about during that hour, but Ed asked me a few questions 
that led to a conversation about what I should look into more and what I should avoid as it's not a BSc-level question but more Phd-level. One of the topics that caught my 
interest was procedural generated animations and AI learning crossover. This is far too hard to write about, let alone making an artefact. Sam sent me a couple of interesting 
videos for this topic, but I will watch them just of my interest. I will probably not go far into this, as this is not of my current level.

During programmers' guild we had an interesting session for time management. Started with a fun game where we had to collect points for 10 minuters from different tasks. 
Nevertheless, after this game we had a normal session with other tasks such as writing our daily routine we have and what we have done yesterday. Describing everything 
from morning till next day. It had some good and useful sources for reminding yourself what you had planned and how to make yourself start working. I will have to look 
into those sources more in-depth and maybe some of it might help me organise myself.


10/10/2019
Don't remember what happened


11/10/2019
Very boring lecture with Michael, my brain didn't want to work and understand enything at all... After we had a team meeting - showed paper prototype and digital one as well as 
escape room text adventure prototype. We decided on the first one and now fully working on "Hotpunk"

I got very ill this weekends as well so I stayed home until Thursday


17/10/2019
Still ill but have to come to the studio to do some work, cause who else gonna do it, huh?
Worked on game time today - implemented sun rotation, pause game time and icreanse/decrease game time. We also had a meeting about art style and all the artsy stuff, which 
I was a part of but did not say much, cause it's not really my route.